# CSCI-4511W-Project

Final Project – CSCI 4511W
University of Minnesota

by hiremeiprogram



	This project was an attempt to implement the game Age of Civilizations and Age of Civilizations: Europe, which can be found on the Google Play Store, in Java in order to test different heuristics with the A* Search Algorithm as the game's AI. The project proved somewhat successful, though the implementation of the game was rudimentary and left out some of the features of the game. Overall, a heuristic that chooses to attack with the province connected to the most friendly provinces proved to be the most effective of those used.
	Age of Civilizations is a strategy game similar to Risk, though without dice rolling and with a few added flourishes to make the game more interesting. More specifically, the player relies on the economy of owned provinces in order to recruit soldiers. Recruiting soldiers lessens the economy of a given province, limiting the player's ability to purchase troops in the future in order to add provinces to ones empire at the present moment. Other features include the ability to built structures like ports and watchtowers on owned provinces that provide benefits to ones army and the ability to offer truces and pacts to computer players. Overall these features make the game much more interesting than the typical game of risk.
	There are some downsides to playing against computer players however. They do not learn from there mistakes, and once one has found a way to best the AI the game becomes too easy. In order to try to rekindle interest in the game, one must search for a better AI algorithm. A* Search came to mind as a potentially promising algorithm. Provided the right heuristic, it seems like it would be perfectly suited to handle the basic structure of this game. From that point one could add features that would tackle the structure building and diplomatic aspects of the game.
	For this reason the project was implemented in a simple way in order to test different A* heuristics. Once the correct heuristic is found, one can add a Graphical User Interface and game functions outside of what A* is going to be responsible for. For this project, all that was needed was a simple and efficient framework run A* tests upon.
	Three heuristics were tested in this project. The first counted the number of attackable provinces from each province owned by a player. This province would be considered the best node to attack from in the upcoming turn. The second counted the number of friendly provinces connected to this province and considered this the best node to attack from in the upcoming turn. The third always used to the province containing the largest number of soldiers to be the best to attack from. The first two heuristics then chose the province containing the least number of soldiers to attack. The third heuristic would attacked the connected province with the highest difference between economy and enemy soldiers.
	The second heuristic proved to be the most formidable by winning the majority of the games. The first heuristic held its own, but did not win nearly as many games as the second heuristic did. Finally the third heuristic and an implementation that allowed for random moves to be made had wins in the single digits, both proving to be pretty ineffective.
	There were a few problems in the making of this project. First, there is a bug that will every once in a while cause tests to hang. No solution has been found to fix this bug. However, stopping and starting a new test often works. Second, it is not determined whether A* search will be effective when combined with other techniques that will take care of diplomacy and structure building. 
	Overall, it seems that the second heuristic is the definitive champion. These tests are further validated by functions that randomized starting positions and order that turns were taken in every test. One would venture to guess that the best heuristic was the best because it was taking advantage of provinces that were relatively safe to perform the attacks. Whether this is the best possible heuristic for this game is not yet known and will be put to future testing.
